README.md, before:

# simple-safe-csv
Simple and type safe approach to generating CSV files with Python

## How to use

### Create a type-safe model class
Minimum requirements are
1. Constructor must take all fields as named arguments.
1. Value that comes as constructor argument can be either of a desired type or a string. Before assigning an argument value to a model field it needs to be converted from string if neessary.

#### Model Example
```py
import datetime as dt
from typing import Union


class Model:
    def __init__(
            self,
            int_field: Union[int, str] = None,
            string_field: str = None,
            datetime_field: Union[dt.datetime, str] = None):
        self.int_field: int = _to_int_or_none(int_field)
        self.string_field: str = string_field
        self.datetime_field: dt.datetime = _to_date_time_or_none(
            datetime_field)
```

If there are types that need to be serialised in non-standard way, then check `_to_csv_safe_dict` in [csv_gen.py](./src/csv_gen.py). `_to_csv_safe_dict` is responsible for to string serialisation and can be modified to fit your needs.

### Writing to CSV
```py
import src.csv_gen as csv_gen


data = [
    Model(int_field=1, string_field="1", datetime_field=utc_now),
    Model(int_field=2, string_field="2", datetime_field=utc_now_plus_1)
]

csv_gen.write_as_csv(file_path, data)
```

### Reading from CSV

```py
import src.csv_gen as csv_gen


data: List[Model] = csv_gen.read_from_csv(path, Model)
```

## How to run tests

```sh
python3 -m pytest tests
```

Commit message:

improve readme and add refernece to details blog post

README.md, after:

# simple-safe-csv
Simple and type safe approach to generating CSV files with Python

More detaiils are available in [Type-safe approach to CSV with Python
](https://programhappy.net/2020/11/13/type-safe-approach-to-csv-with-python) blog post.

## How to use

### Create a type-safe model class
Minimum requirements are
1. All field names must match CSV file header (column names).
1. Constructor must take all fields as named arguments. Names of the arguments must match CSV file header (column names).
1. A constructor argument value can be either of a given type (int, datetime and etc.) or a string, so before assigning constructor argument value to a model field the value may needs to be parsed from string.

#### Model Example
```py
import datetime as dt
from typing import Union


class Model:
    def __init__(
            self,
            int_field: Union[int, str] = None,
            string_field: str = None,
            datetime_field: Union[dt.datetime, str] = None):
        self.int_field: int = _to_int_or_none(int_field)
        self.string_field: str = string_field
        self.datetime_field: dt.datetime = _to_date_time_or_none(
            datetime_field)
```

If there are types that need to be serialised in non-standard way, then check `_to_csv_safe_dict` in [csv_gen.py](./src/csv_gen.py). `_to_csv_safe_dict` is responsible for to string serialisation and can be modified to fit your needs.

### Writing to CSV
```py
import src.csv_gen as csv_gen
from typing import List


data: List[Model] = [
    Model(int_field=1, string_field="1", datetime_field=utc_now),
    Model(int_field=2, string_field="2", datetime_field=utc_now_plus_1)
]

csv_gen.write_as_csv(file_path, data)
```

### Reading from CSV

```py
import src.csv_gen as csv_gen


data: List[Model] = csv_gen.read_from_csv(path, Model)
```

## How to run tests

```sh
python3 -m pytest tests
```
